# SZZUnleashed

A implementation of the SZZ algorithm as described by Zeller et al's in ["When Do
Changes Induce Fixes?"](https://www.st.cs.uni-saarland.de/papers/msr2005/). It
also contains further improvements as described by Williams et al's in [Szz 
revisited: verifying when changes induce fixes](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/220854597_SZZ_revisited_verifying_when_changes_induce_fixes).

## What is the usage of this algorithm?

The SZZ algorithm is used to find bug introducing commits from a set of bug
fixing commits. The bug introducing commits can be extracted either from a bug
tracking system such as JIRA or simply by searching for commits that states that
they are fixing something. The found bug introducing commits can then be used to 
build datasets for machine learning purposes such as when buggy commits wants to 
be found.

## Prerequisites:

* Java 8
* Gradle

## Usage

This implementation works regardless which language and file type. It uses
[JGIT](https://www.eclipse.org/jgit/) to parse a git repository.

To build a runnable jar file, use the gradle build script in the szz directory
like:


```shell
gradle build && gradle fatJar
```

Or if the algorithm should be runned without building a jar:

```shell
gradle build && gradle runJar
```

The algorithm tries to use as many cores as possible during runtime. The more
the merrier so to say.


## Output

The output can then be seen in three different files commits.json,
annotations.json and fix\_and\_bug\_introducing\_pairs.json.

The commits.json file includes all commits that have been blamed to be bug
introducing but which haven't been analyzed by any anything.

The annotations.json is a representation of the graph that is generated by the
algorithm in the blaming phase. Each bug fixing commit is linked to all possible
commits which could be responsible for the bug. Using the improvement from
Williams et al's, the graph also contains subgraphs which gives a deeper search
for responsible commits. It enables the algorithm to blame other commits than
just the one closest in history for a bug.

Lastly, the fix\_and\_bug\_introducing\_pairs.json includes all possible pairs
which could lead to a bug introduction and fix. This file is not sorted in any
way and it includes doublettes when it comes to both introducers and fixes. A
fix can be made several times and a introducer could be responsible for many
fixes.

## Notes

The source code will soon show up in this repository.
